#summary Piccolo2D BOF session at JavaOne 2009

= Introduction =

Stephen Chin and Michael Heuer presented Piccolo2D at a birds-of-a-feather (BOF) session at the !JavaOne 2009 conference on 06 June 2009.

= Details =

Piccolo2D is an open-source framework for writing zooming user interfaces (ZUIs) in the Java™ environment and .NET. It continues the tradition of the well-known Piccolo and Jazz frameworks from the University of Maryland, with the support of a large, active community.

This session tried to answer the following questions:
 * How can ZUIs be applied to rich Internet applications?
 * What are the common paradigms for semantic zooming?
 * How do you test ZUIs?
 * What features should the next major version of Piccolo2D include?
 * How do Piccolo2D and the JavaFX™ platform interact?
 * What is the future relationship of Scenegraph and Piccolo2D?
 * How can I get involved in the Piccolo2D project?
 * How do I . . . . (stump the experts with your own Piccolo2D question)

The session will be particularly valuable to Piccolo2D users and Java desktop technology developers.

Download the presentation at [http://piccolo2d.googlecode.com/files/Piccolo2D_JavaOne_2009_BOF-4787.odp] (or [http://piccolo2d.googlecode.com/files/Piccolo2D_JavaOne_2009_BOF-4787.pdf PDF version]).

= Feedback from Attendees =

SVG support should be a high priority.  One suggested implementation was a node that renders SVG content with varying levels of detail at different scales via sematic zooming.