#summary What's to be done to get 1.3 out of the door.
#labels Phase-QA

see also issue#43

<wiki:toc />

= Todos Release 1.3 (Java) =

in approximately this order:
  # address issues as described below
  # decide that source code style and javadoc fixing is good enough
  # decide that unit test coverage is good enough
  # create release checklist for release manager to follow, see ReleaseChecklist
  # stepwise code cleanup, build, package and [http://groups.google.com/group/piccolo2d-announce/browse_thread/thread/2a04eb810571ce00 announce] binaries: jar, sources, javadocs
    # alpha
    # beta
    # release candidate(s)
    # final
  # without veto after 1 week's time progress to the next step,
  # upload finals to repo1.maven.org (see issue#62)
  # integrate javadocs into http://piccolo2d.googlecode.com/svn/site/download.html
  # write http://piccolo2d.googlecode.com/svn/piccolo2d.java/trunk/ReleaseNotes.txt 
  # write [http://groups.google.com/group/piccolo2d-announce/browse_thread/thread/2a04eb810571ce00 announcement mail]


== Issues ==

The following issues must be resolved before the 1.3 release.

Issue 146

<br/>
The following New issues have not yet been reviewed, Accepted, and assigned to a version.

Issue 122

<br/>
The following issues were Fixed but not Verified since version 1.2.1.  These should be marked as Verified before the 1.3 release, ideally by the original submitter, and then listed in the release notes.  Developers, please verify those issues fixed by other developers!

Issue 15

Issue 126

<br/>
Query: [http://code.google.com/p/piccolo2d/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone:1.3%20status=Fixed&sort=status&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Priority%20Milestone%20Owner%20Toolkit%20Component%20Summary Milestone:1.3,status=Fixed]


<br/>
The following issues were Fixed and Verified since version 1.2.1.  These should be listed in the release notes.

Issue 2

Issue 6

Issue 8

Issue 9

Issue 13

Issue 14

Issue 17

Issue 20

Issue 21

Issue 22

Issue 23

Issue 25

Issue 27

Issue 28

Issue 29

Issue 32

Issue 38

Issue 42

Issue 44

Issue 46

Issue 47

Issue 49

Issue 51

Issue 52

Issue 56

Issue 59

Issue 63

Issue 64

Issue 66

Issue 67

Issue 68

Issue 69

Issue 70

Issue 71

Issue 73

Issue 74

Issue 79

Issue 82

Issue 83

Issue 88

Issue 89

Issue 90

Issue 93

Issue 94

Issue 95

Issue 96

Issue 97

Issue 98

Issue 99

Issue 100

Issue 101

Issue 104

Issue 106

Issue 108

Issue 109

Issue 110

Issue 111

Issue 113

Issue 116

Issue 123

Issue 124

Issue 125

Issue 127

Issue 128

Issue 131

Issue 132

Issue 133

Issue 137

Issue 138

Issue 142

Issue 143

Issue 144

Issue 150

<br/>
Query: [http://code.google.com/p/piccolo2d/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3A1.3+status%3DVerified&sort=id+status&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Toolkit+Component+Summary&x=status&y=milestone&cells=tiles Milestone:1.3,status=Verified]


== For the Release Notes ==

 * One or two sentence description of each Enhancement fixed and verified since 1.2.1.  Refer to the [http://code.google.com/p/piccolo2d/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone:1.3%20status=Verified&sort=+component+-type+-summary&colspec=ID%20Type%20Component%20Summary list of verified issues]

 * Graphs or tables showing decreases in FindBugs, PMD, and Checkstyle error/warnings since 1.2.1.  Simply comparing 1.2.1 and 1.3 release tags would be sufficient, trend graphs would be cool

 * Graph or table showing increase in unit test coverage since 1.2.1

 * [http://clirr.sf.net Clirr] report showing API changes from 1.2.1 to 1.3

 * List of new examples

 * List of developers & contributors, refer to parent pom


== Uploading to Maven Central Repository ==

This is going to be a problem.  We cannot use the manual upload process since we have a multi-module project with a parent pom.  We will need to set up a maven repository that will need to provide rsync over ssh access to maven central.

There is such a repository on google-code

http://code.google.com/p/google-maven-repository/

However, it is currently only available to Google company projects, see

http://code.google.com/p/support/issues/detail?id=1226


== Optional ==
  * make examples webstartable? (be inspired by [http://www.jcurl.org/jws/org/jcurl/demo/tactics/0.7-SNAPSHOT/launch.jnlp demo jnlp] [http://svn.berlios.de/wsvn/jcurl/trunk/java-core/webstart/tactics/pom.xml pom / svn]), see Issue 139